>> [Music] I think many
people today don't know what
to believe anymore.
>> People are basically
going to keep
on to help uncover
what really happened.
>> I felt like something
was watching me.
>> We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told the
entire story.
[ Background Music ]
>> George Noory: Well,
welcome to Beyond Belief
and there is nothing that
excites us more than talking
about the supernatural,
the paranormal, the unusual
and we've got that with one
of the world's foremost
investigators, Jeff Belanger,
who does this for a living.
>> Jeff Belanger: Who knew?
>> Noory: This has
got to be fun.
>> Belanger: It beats a
real job, George, for sure.
>> Noory: You know, and you
just said something; who knew?
When Jeff was a little boy were
you interested in this stuff?
>> Belanger: Absolutely.
I grew up in an old New England
town with a lot of history
and I had friends who said
their houses were haunted,
so we'd have sleepovers and
at age ten I remember asking,
you know, the parents and
stuff, so there's a ghost here?
And back then we weren't so out
of the closet like we are now
so people would say
you know yeah,
don't tell your parents though
but someone else
lives here with us.
We're not afraid of it but
something's going on here,
so I was intrigued
my whole life.
>> Noory: If you had to
categorize, Jeff, your expertise
in this arena, what
would that be?
>> Belanger: Folklore
and history.
If you want to say
there's no such thing
as ghosts, that's fine. I
don't personally believe that,
but at the same time, the
stories are real, the history's
real. In a lot of respects,
George,
ghosts are history
demanding to be remembered.
To talk about ghosts,
to talk about hauntings,
is to talk about our past,
to connect with our past,
with our ancestors, with our
history, all of that stuff goes
into making us who we are
today, and what better way
to explore it than with
these great stories.
>> Noory: You have a
passion for this stuff.
>> Belanger: I love it.
I love this stuff.
It's so much fun.
You know, when I travel, I
want to see haunted places;
I want to become part
of those stories.
You know you hear these things,
you see them on television,
you hear them on Coast
to Coast and you want to,
you want to see them for
yourselves because maybe,
just maybe you're going
to have that experience,
that once in a lifetime event
that makes you say whoa,
there's more to this
than meets the eye.
>> Noory: Why are these
places, Jeff, haunted?
I mean what is creating
this kind of energy?
>> Belanger: Right.
>> Noory: Where these
spirits, entities,
whatever they may
be, hang around.
>> Belanger: That's the
million dollar question.
If I knew, you know, for sure
I think there's as many reasons
for ghosts as there are ghosts.
In some respects, there's
a tragedy that took place
and people talk about
that tragedy,
we relive it, we
give energy to it.
The more we say oh, this
is where there was a murder
or a suicide or an
unfortunate death, and so,
so that's often the back story
of a haunting but not always.
Sometimes it's just like a movie
that replays
over and over again.
It's just the past that almost
gets imprinted on a location,
might call it the stone tape
theory, but there are
so many different theories
to what's the reasons.
To me it's simply
a place is haunted
when people have experiences,
when they talk about it
and it gets a reputation.
Now if things happen often,
it's an active haunting.
If it's years in
between, not so much.
>> Noory: Always remember
a story, true story.
A little girl would talk to
her parents every day and talk
about another little
girl in the house
and the parents figured ah,
you know it's our little girl,
she's having a, you
know, a little, you know,
type of imagination, let's
just let her do her thing,
but then the conversations
got a little darker
and the little girl would tell
her parents yes, she died here,
and the parents didn't
want to hear that.
>> Belanger: Sure.
>> Noory: So it was okay
when it was fun and games,
but when she started
hearing from them, you now,
she died here, they
got a little upset.
And then one day the girl
said, and she's still here.
And they said, what do
you mean she's still here?
And she said well yes, her
bones are under the floor.
And they said where
did you hear this
and she said well she told me
that something happened to her
and her bones are
under the floor.
And I'll find out where,
and she did, and she kind
of like made a circle
around a certain area
and the parents were really
mortified and they had it dug up
and sure enough there were
bones of a little girl there,
a little six year old.
>> Belanger: Isn't that amazing?
>> Noory: Who had been
killed and buried down there.
>> Belanger: So to me,
that's incredible, right?
I mean when you have
compelling evidence.
It's one thing to say
oh, people see the
>> Noory: It's beyond belief.
>> Belanger: It's beyond belief.
Nice plug.
That was good.
So it's one thing when we
have something very tangible
like that where we can say the
spirits are telling me this
and then you find that thing,
suddenly you know you've got
some pretty hard evidence,
and that's what we're always
looking for, isn't it, evidence.
I wish I could call it proof,
I really do because then
we could put it in a jar
and let everyone see it, but
this stuff is so elusive.
It's always changing and
every situation's different
but at the same time to me
the evidence is overwhelming
when you add it all up.
Stories like that, some of the
photographs and audio clips
that we get, the video
clips that we get,
but beyond anything else,
the personal experiences.
You know it doesn't
matter what I say
or how many photos I
show you, when you walk
in to Eastern State Penitentiary
where we were a few years ago
>> Noory: Oh yeah, where
you could feel something.
>> Belanger: Yeah we're in
this creepy dark corridor,
when you see something
step out of the shadows
and then disappear,
game, set, match, right?
It's over.
You're now a believer.
I had an experience.
You can think I was mistaken
or jetlagged or whatever
but I know what I saw.
I trust my senses just
like everyone else.
>> Noory: It's all
about energy isn't it
and the spirit world
is out there.
>> Belanger: I think you
know the energy, right,
we feel that with living people.
You meet a person and sometimes
you just connect with them
or you pull back for
whatever reason, right,
because we're feeling that
interaction with people.
There is this collective
consciousness experience
that we're all a part of.
We share ideas, we
share concepts,
we share these stories.
These stories don't
just bind us to the past
and to our ancestors, they
bind us to each other.
If I tell you George, I had this
ghost experience what I'm saying
is I trust you, I trust that
you're not going to mock me,
we're bonding here, you
know, this is real stuff,
this isn't not just, you know,
what's the weather
like you know?
And so, so I love
every aspect of it.
The connection with each other
and we're also exploring
our own inevitable future
because we're all going
to die one day and we have
to come to grips with that.
What comes next?
>> Noory: Well a
lot of people are
at their crossroads
right now, Jeff.
They don't know if
there's life after death
and I think it's
starting to affect them
in the way they live, because
when they think this is it,
it's kind of a weird feeling.
>> Belanger: Right.
>> Noory: I mean I think we
all want to know and believe
that this is going to exist,
it's going to keep going
and it may change somewhat and
we may morph into something else
but I don't think anybody
really likes that feeling
of it's done, folks, it's over.
Now I take the posture
there is life after death.
Enjoy this life.
I'm in no hurry to join the
other side and I'm going
to have as
best arun here as I can,
but when it's done, there's
another evolution to that.
Do you find that to be the
case with a lot of people?
>> Belanger: I do and I
love the debates, right,
the discussions even when I'm
talking to a devout atheist
and I use the word devout
because it's a belief system,
it requires as much
work as any other,
and I say alright let's
pretend this is it.
Don't you want to be remembered?
Right? We still talk about
Shakespeare, we still talk
about Aristotle, we talk about
some great thinkers and writers
and artists centuries and even
millennia after their death
because they did great
things and we remember them.
So that memory, right, in
some sense you will live
on in the memories of
your works, of your deeds,
of your family, of
the stories and so on.
So if you even take it at that
very basic level there's an
eternal aspect to life here.
I agree with you.
I believe there's
something more to it
because I've had
experiences I can't explain
with any other word other
than ghost or spirit you know?
I've had gut feelings that tell
me you know there's something
significant going on here
and there is more to it
and like you I'm in no rush but
>> Noory: Let's enjoy
it while we can.
>> Belanger: But finding
out would be a great
adventure in itself.
>> Noory: Tell me about your
travels and where they take you.
>> Belanger: I love to travel.
I think you grow as a
person when you travel
and when I travel
I don't want to go
to the traditional gift
shops or anything like that.
I want to go where
there's great stories.
>> Noory: [Laughing]
>> Belanger: You know?
>> Noory: So we don't find
you in those tour buses.
>> Belanger: No not so much.
I might take a ride on one to
get somewhere but then I want
to look under the rocks.
I want to see the,
the nitty gritty past
that maybe not everyone
knows about because in doing
so you become part of the story.
You know if you go to visit, if
you go to the Louvre in Paris,
right, and you go and you stand
in front of the Mona Lisa,
there's so many other
paintings in that amazing place
that to me, I mean I'm
not art critic but I look
and I see these magnificent-but
I had to see the Mona Lisa
because now I'm part
of the story.
>> Noory: Did she wink at you?
>> Belanger: She didn't.
She didn't.
I winked at her though just
to get it out of the way.
But I became part of the story
of the Mona Lisa just
by standing there.
So when I go to these
haunted places I want to talk
to the people that
had the experiences.
I want to go and get into it
because I found this -- I was
in Juneau, Alaska years ago and
I was at the Alaskan Hotel
and I came in on a cruise
ship with all the tourists
but I went there and I said
I'm really interested in ghosts
and I hear this place
is haunted.
And they sized me
up for a minute
and they said, Joe come here.
Tell him what you saw
coming down the stairs,
and in a few minutes I was
surrounded by locals talking
about something unique to
Juneau.
>> Noory: And they're
forthright.
>> Belanger: Absolutely.
If I stayed another hour
I would have been invited
to Sunday dinner, and
that's just -- I was ingrained.
>> Noory: Just hope
you weren't the dinner.
>> Belanger: That's right.
>> Noory: You never know.
>> Belanger: No, there's
roads or rail into Alaska so,
but no, into Juneau, rather.
So it was just, it
was this bonding thing
that instantly made me not
a cheesy tourist but someone
who wanted to know
about something special
that exists only there
and nowhere else.
>> Noory: What has been your
favorite place to visit?
>> Belanger: Probably the
Catacombs of Paris, France.
>> Noory: Tell me about that.
>> Belanger: The Catacombs
is an amazing story.
Paris wouldn't exist
without them.
All this great limestone
material that they had to build
that goes back 2,000 years.
The Romans quarried it and
eventually they built a city
and eventually they had
to tunnel to get more
of that great limestone.
So there's 300 kilometers
of tunnels.
They emptied the cemeteries
in Paris in the mid-1700's
to 1800's and stacked
up these bones
and at first it's very macabre
and it takes your breath away
when you see all these bones
and skeletons all around you,
but then you realize, you
know, disturbing a place
of the dead is a
universal taboo.
They had to because the
living always take precedent.
So I'm down there
alone, you know,
walking through these tunnels
>> Noory: With all
these bones everywhere.
>> Belanger: All these
bones and as I'm walking
down a hallway I could
reach my arms out
and be touching skulls
with each fingertip.
It was that narrow.
>> Noory: Was there
a certain odor to it
or anything like that?
>> Belanger: No, after a few
centuries bones don't really
have a smell.
>> Noory: It goes away.
>> Belanger: Yeah,
it's just a musty,
damp smell because there's water
seeping through the limestone
and you hear the drips
and the crunch of gravel
under your feet, and as I'm
walking I see a shadow the size
of a man move from the
right side to the left
and go back again, and I froze.
I really hadn't had a ghost
experience up to that point,
even though I'd been
writing about them for years
and suddenly your brain goes
through all this processing,
what am I seeing, what is going
on right now, and I'm trying
to rule out everything
and all I was left
with was the word ghost, spirit.
I was connecting with whatever
was down there and the thing was
>> Noory: And there's probably a
lot down there.
>> Belanger: Six
million skeletons
and so this is the kind
of experience, George,
that sinks in over the span
of days and weeks and months
and years even, where you
just start saying I just had
this experience.
And I've interviewed
thousands now
about their paranormal
encounters
and when you have
the one, right,
suddenly those other stories
have a lot more gravity.
>> Noory: Did it scare you?
>> Belanger: It didn't.
I wasn't scared.
I wasn't afraid.
I think I got more afraid
maybe even the next day
where I just went
>> Noory: When you
begin to think about it.
>> Belanger: Right,
when it sinks in.
At the time I just went,
I didn't feel I was
in danger I just felt this is
out of place, this
is a curiosity.
>> Noory: Well these bones,
is there any order to them
or are they just all
tossed down there?
>> Belanger: There are
various signs that mark
which cemeteries the bones
came from, but there's no way
to know who's who, but you
can see this macabre pattern.
There are Valentine hearts,
there's crosses made of bones,
there are arcs and
all kinds of thing and
>> Noory: Look at them all.
>> Belanger: Yeah and you
realize this is the only way
they could show respect, right,
was to not just throw them
in a pile but to
actually put some
>> Noory: And these people
died, Jeffrey, under all kinds
of circumstances right?
>> Belanger: Sixty
generations of Parisians, so.
>> Noory: Disease, natural, wars
>> Belanger: All of it's there.
>> Noory: Battles, you name it.
>> Belanger: All of it's
there and what's great
to me is you know
this is the foundation
of this beautiful city of Paris.
People don't even know
about this place sometimes.
They go there and they're
looking at the beautiful museums
>> Noory: Can anybody tour this?
>> Belanger: There are
sections anybody can tour yes,
and there are sections
that you need to probably
>> Noory: Sneak in?
>> Belanger: Bend a
few laws to get in
and know what you're doing
because it can be dangerous.
Cataphiles, they're
called, people who go
down into these Catacombs,
300 kilometers you know.
>> Noory: Are there
people living down there?
>> Belanger: I wouldn't
be surprised,
you know, in certain sections.
In certain sections.
And it's not bones
throughout the 300 kilometers,
there's just sections with
bones, but it's an amazing place
and I wonder, you know,
you're walking on top level
and you're looking at
all these people taking
in this gorgeous city,
do you realize the
bones under your feet?
>> Noory: What's underneath you.
>> Belanger: You know it's
built on 60 generations
>> Noory: Are they still
tossing bones down there?
>> Belanger: No, no, that
stopped in the mid-1800's.
>> Noory: Oh good.
>> Belanger: But it's
one of these things
that takes your breath away.
Not only is it macabre, but
it's beautiful in a way.
In the beginning
it's just shocking
but by the end you realize
there's a beauty to it;
that these people are forced
into one collective voice.
You know you go to a cemetery
and there's a headstone
and each one represents a person
usually, but this is just,
you know, six million
in one, one
>> Noory: What time period
do you think this was?
>> Belanger: It was
the beginning
>> Noory: Of the skeletons?
>> Belanger: That
was the mid-1700's
to the mid-1800's roughly,
when they emptied the various
cemeteries around Paris
and moved the bones underneath.
>> Noory: That many people
died during that time period?
>> Belanger: Well
you're talking about
>> Noory: Maybe more
>> Belanger: 15, 16, 1700
years of history, of people.
>> Noory: In the process
of living you keep dying.
>> Belanger: That's
it, that's it.
You know someone told
me once they said,
boy with all these stories you
must have some job security
and I said, you know me
and undertakers will
never be out of work.
>> Noory: No, not, not at all.
>> Belanger: Yeah.
>> Noory: When you
left the place
and like you said you
started to think about it,
what had happened and stuff
like that, would you go back?
>> Belanger: I have been back.
I did. I did go back a few years
later and I would go back again
because I want that
experience again.
That's the thing, you know,
there's an addictive
nature to it.
There's this rush of adrenaline
when you have the experience
and the second time I went
back nothing happened,
which, to me, further validates
the first time.
You know it's not like
it's always there.
>> Noory: You're married?
>> Belanger: I am married.
>> Noory: How does your
wife feel about what you do?
>> Belanger: You know she
gets asked that a lot.
This isn't her passion but at
the same time we've been able
to go to some very
interesting places
because of my connections
to this stuff.
>> Noory: Was she there too?
>> Belanger: She went
the second time with me
and she was ready to see.
We went to London once and
we got to go after hours
to the Tower of London as a
guest of the Yeomen Warders.
We saw the changing of the keys.
He took us into some of the
haunted nooks and crannies
because I'd interviewed
him for one of my books,
and so on the one hand
we've had the privilege
to meet some incredible people
and see some incredible things
that we wouldn't have otherwise.
>> Noory: Fascinating isn't it?
>> Belanger: It's great.
It's great.
>> Noory: Do you find
that Europe has more
stories than North America?
>> Belanger: I think because
there's more history there,
not more human history,
there were people
in North America
10,000 years ago
but more preserved
modern history there.
People talk about ghosts more
matter of fact in Europe.
You know I was talking to
someone near Manchester
about this 700 year
old manor house
and I said oh, is it haunted?
He was incredulous.
He said of course it's haunted;
it's a 700 year old manor house.
What
>> Noory: What do you expect?
>> Belanger: What
self-resepecting
English manor wouldn't have a
ghost
or two?
And in North America
I think, you know,
in New England anyway there's
some of that sensibility
that yeah, it's haunted so what?
And then you move to
different parts of the country
and people interpret it
differently, you know?
In the south they say well
this is demonic or angelic,
there's no middle ground.
Then someone else might be
more about just communicating
with the energies
of it, and that's,
that's the thing isn't it?
This great big human gumbo
that we're living in every day,
we all add to these stories;
we all take something from them
and leave part of ourselves
when we talk about them.
>> Noory: Now tell me about
your work at Stonehenge.
What'd you do there?
>> Belanger: So Stonehenge
in England is very famous,
everybody knows it, but
there's a Stonehenge in America,
in New Hampshire,
Salem, New Hampshire,
which is in the southern
part of the state.
>> Noory: Smaller, right?
>> Belanger: Much smaller.
When you go to Stonehenge in
England you look and you say,
how did people do this?
>> Noory: How'd they do this?
How'd they move this?
>> Belanger: Right.
When you go to Stonehenge
in New Hampshire you would
say why did they do this?
There'll these alignment
stones that point
at various point. That's one
of the alignment stones.
So when sunrises or sunsets
hit then from two points,
from a central point and so
on, that would mark equinoxes;
summer, fall, winter,
spring and things like that,
but it also has these
other alignment stones
that mark the half holidays.
And the people who did
that, the people who cared
about those half
holidays, we the Celts.
Samhain, right, Beltane,
you know the May 1st,
the October 31st and so it
seems to be Celtic in origin.
Now Harvard came in, Harvard's
not too far from there, came in
and did a study and said the
last time these stones would
have all lined up perfectly
was about 4,000 years ago,
because the earth wobbles.
It doesn't, it's not
a perfect rotation,
so the last time they would
have aligned perfectly was 4,000
years ago.
What were the Celts?
>> Noory: Which means...
>> Belanger: Right.
>> Noory: Why were they here?
>> Belanger: 4,000 years
ago what were they doing
in New England?
And there's other
alignment stones
and the local Native Americans
didn't tend to work in stone
like this, they didn't
leave stone structures,
so the consensus seems to be
that this is likely Celtic
in origin, but it's
more than a calendar.
There are chambers and there's
a feature called the Sacrificial
Table, which we have a photo of.
It's this plateau that looks
almost like a cutting board
with a groove around it, like
when you're cutting your meat
in your kitchen except it's the
size of a person as you can see.
And so not only was it a
calendar it was a place
for sacrifice.
And you've got to remember
George years ago, you know,
what's the significance
of a calendar?
Well today we take
it for granted;
we put our doctor's
appointments or whatever.
Back then
>> Noory: Everything.
Seasons, you name it.
>> Belanger: If you messed
up your calendar, you die.
If you don't plant at the right
time, harvest at the right time,
hunt, migrate and
so on, you die.
And so if things aren't going
well with your, you know,
with your calendar, if you're
doing everything right,
what do you do?
You sacrifice.
>> Noory: Well in
those days too,
if you didn't have some
kind of calendar system,
you'd have no idea when the
seasons were going to change.
>> Belanger: Sure.
>> Noory: You'd go, I
think we're getting closer
to winter but I'm not sure.
>> Belanger: Right, right.
>> Noory: You could be
off by 30 days right?
>> Belanger: Well especially
in New England, you know,
we get some wacky
weather that can
>> Noory: We sure do.
>> Belanger: That can look,
look like the wrong season.
>> Noory: Now this
isn't haunted though.
>> Belanger: Well
here's the thing.
There have been stories,
there have been stories
about people seeing
glowing balls of light
with their naked eye, not
just captured on camera
but moving throughout.
This is a sacred place.
You know it went from
being a functional place
to even today sacred.
Pagans go there and perform
riturals.
>> Noory: Is it hallowed
ground, as they say?
>> Belanger: I think after
someone-if you pay attention
to a piece of land for so
many years and if people come
and consider it sacred
and they perform rituals
as pagans still do to this
very day, it becomes sacred,
it becomes hallowed, it
becomes something more
than just a hilltop in
southern New Hampshire
with a few rocks pointing
in various directions.
It becomes something, again,
the connection to the past,
but it also becomes this sacred
site where people go and take
from it what they will.
Now, I'm not pagan so when I
went there it was just this
amazing curiosity, incredible
structures, but to a pagan,
and I've interviewed pagans
there, it's a very special place
where they come to connect with
Mother Earth and it's beautiful,
it's beautiful that we all
get what we get out of it.
>> Noory: Why does it seem
that all these structures
are tied into death?
>> Belanger: Well death
is the big one isn't it?
It's the great
>> Noory: It's the
great unknown.
>> Belanger: It's
the great unknown
but it also levels the
playing field for all of us.
It's one of our guarantees
in life; we're going to die.
From the moment you're
born you're going to die
and we all have to come
to grips with that,
whether it's how we're going to
be remembered, what do we want
to be remember for,
what cause do we want
to maybe even take
on in the afterlife.
Do we want to stick around
and see our families grow up?
Do we want to see the land
that we loved or the building
that we loved taken care of?
All of these things.
So we have a pre-occupation
with death and have
since humans started
burial rituals.
>> Noory: Since the
beginning of time.
>> Belanger: Yeah,
I mean since-40,000 years
ago there was ritual
to the burial process, you know?
Laying the body in a certain
direction east or west
and flowers were abundant
and things like that.
Why? Because we thought
it mattered.
>> Noory: Would you want to know
the day you die and how you die?
>> Belanger: No.
>> Noory: You don't
want to know that?
>> Belanger: No, no.
I mean because it could
be getting hit by a bus
after I leave here today.
>> Noory: Well yeah
but if you knew that
>> Belanger: I wouldn't be here.
>> Noory: You'd avoid the bus.
>> Belanger: Yeah I suppose
but I kind of feel like, George,
that everything is
part of a plan
and we're all playing
our role in it
and there are certain things
we're just not supposed to know.
We can get gut feelings
about it, what comes after,
that's the thing we can
work on inside, but the time
and place that's just not
>> Noory: The reason I bring
that up, Tom and I, my producer,
we were talking about all
the Coast to Coast guests
that have passed
on in the 11 years
that I've been doing
the program.
>> Belanger: Sure.
>> Noory: It's uncanny Jeff
and I wonder how many of them
if I would had said to them,
Glenn Kimball being one of them,
great historian, Glenn you're
going to be dead in ten years.
I wonder if people would
have been shocked, you know?
What? I'm going to be dead
in-Lloyd Pye who was just
on Beyond Belief. He's gone.
I just wonder how many
people would like to know
so they could take
precautions or be prepared.
>> Belanger: How about
you don't get to know
and you live every day like
this could be the last and you
>> Noory: I do that too.
>> Belanger: And you
seize these moments
and you say what great
things can I do today?
What connections can I
make with other people?
How can I help?
How can I make the world
around me a little bit better
because you don't know?
>> Noory: Interesting
things these days.
>> Belanger: Yeah,
yeah, and you know
and when you explore the
paranormal I think what's
so wonderful about this subject,
and you know you do it nightly
on your talk show, you're
asking the really big questions
you know?
You're asking about
life after death.
You're asking are we
alone in the universe.
You're asking do we
know every creature
that walks the earth with us.
What's the nature of time?
What's the nature of physics?
These are the big ones.
This is-- our human experience
exists to ask these questions.
You may not get the answer
or you might get an individual
answer but we have to ask.
If we stop asking the
question, we stop growing,
we stop living and
we start dying.
>> Noory: What have you
concluded about all of this
and what it all means?
>> Belanger: It's
indisputably real.
What it is, I'm still working on
that, but it's real in the sense
that when I say Bigfoot
an image is conjured
in your mind instantly.
Now can I go find one in the
woods for you, I hope so, maybe
>> Noory: One day.
>> Belanger: Maybe one day.
>> Noory: You've tried.
>> Belanger: I've been out
traipsing in the woods,
haven't found one yet,
but at the same time you
know these things are real
because there's names for them,
because there's stories
behind them,
because there's credible people
that have seen these things
and we all want, I think
deep down we all want
that experience, we want to see
it and have the case settled.
Even if it's just for me I
want to be able to say yeah,
it's real, there's
something to it,
but how do you define reality?
That becomes an even
bigger question right?
Perception I think is
the simplest definition.
>> Noory: Do you ever ask
yourself why is this real?
>> Belanger: Oh yeah.
>> Noory: Not just how but why?
>> Belanger: Yeah,
of course, of course.
You know why is this happening
to some people but not all?
Why do some people have an
encounter and an experience
and again, I think
sometimes you have to throw it
up to it's some greater
plan of the universe
that maybe you're
not supposed to know.
>> Noory: What about
your belief system?
What about people
who don't believe?
Will they ever experience
anything unusual or paranormal?
>> Belanger: It happens all the
time.
I think, I respect anyone
who says look, I don't know
if it's real or not; I
haven't had the experience.
That's a fair position.
>> Noory: What about the person
who says, I don't believe it.
>> Belanger: Right.
>> Noory: And I never will.
>> Belanger: That to me,
that's a belief system.
That's me saying, that's
like saying the Indian
Ocean can't exist
because I've never seen it even
though a billion plus people
live around it and see it every
day and it's their reality,
you say it can't be
because I don't believe it,
which is not a very evolved
way of thinking you know?
And so to me you never know.
I've had skeptics pull be
aside and say this is all bunk,
you're making it up and then
a minute later they say,
let me tell you about this
one time, and I go, go ahead.
>> Noory: Or maybe.
>> Belanger: Maybe.
Yeah, maybe.
Tell me about your one time.
I think we all have that.
>> Noory: You don't generally
need to have an experience
to be a believer do you?
>> Belanger: No of course not.
If someone you love or care
about or trust says I just went
through this thing and you can
see how shaken up they are,
to me that's very
compelling you know?
I've seen that where
I walked into a room,
we were doing an investigation,
I walk into a room
and someone is completely shaken
up by something they
just experienced.
I wasn't there, I didn't see it,
but I think a good analogy
I've used before is it's kind
of like the wind.
No one has ever seen the
wind, it's invisible,
but we see its effects.
>> Noory: Right.
>> Belanger: Right?
So at that point I didn't see
the wind but I saw what it did.
I saw someone shaken up by
something that just walked
through the room and
this is someone I trust
and who I know doesn't have
this happen all the time,
and to me that's almost just
slightly less compelling
than me seeing it for myself.
>> Noory: How many people
go on a ghost hunt Jeff
and they're disappointed because
they don't find the ghost?
>> Belanger: That I think
is almost a nature more
of so many television shows,
you know, you watch the TV shows
and every six minutes before
commercial something happens
and then they get into these
haunted places and say okay,
it's been almost
seven minutes now.
>> Noory: And they
have to show something.
>> Belanger: They
have to show something
and I think it's disappointing
because they're ready
for that experience.
We want to have it, we
want to have it there,
not where we live
I think in general,
and then we can come home with
story to tell, but I think even
if you look at it as simply
getting into these locations
after hours when it's dark, you
know, breathing in the place,
even if nothing happens you're
still part of that story
and you still have
that takeaway.
>> Noory: What has been
your famous for you
and most favorite haunted story?
>> Belanger: The White
House in Washington DC.
>> Noory: Tell me about that,
and we'll talk a little bit more
about that next program.
>> Belanger: Yeah, but it's,
what I love about it is the
credibility of the witnesses.
Everyone knows the building.
When you say the White
House everyone understands.
>> Noory: Everyone knows it.
You know people have died there.
>> Belanger: That's right
people have died there but think
of all the American history
that building has seen.
Almost all of it you know?
It was built in the last
few years of the 1700s,
but it has seen every U.S.
President including Washington
who died before it was
completed but, you know,
was on the grounds, and every
U.S. President has stood there
and left some mark,
and I think some
of those marks can
still be experienced.
>> Noory: You know those
Presidents who have passed on,
some of whom may be still
roaming the hallways there,
there were a lot of people,
First Ladies for example,
that said, you know, I
saw this or I saw that.
I mean it's there.
There's a presence.
>> Belanger: It's an
amazing place, it really is.
I've been there.
I've had the honor of going and
interviewing some of the staff
and what I love-I
love history too.
I'm a history buff and we'll
never know every detail.
We'll never know the minutia
but we know the big stuff
and when you talk about some
of these ghost stories
I believe we're kind
of filling in the gray area.
Where all the hard facts
might be missing, these legends
and lore are still legitimate
forms of history you know?
A story gets passed and retold
and retold and sure it's going
to change and evolve but at
the same time there's something
in there and what's in there
is truth; it's called truth.
We only share stories that
ring true to us and that's
with anything you know?
So if it rings true to us,
if it sounds compelling
we share it with others.
>> Noory: Jeff, who's
the President
who hangs around the most?
>> Belanger: Abe Lincoln.
>> Noory: He won't leave huh?
>> Belanger: No, no and I
wonder will he not leave
because he's just
bound by duty and honor
or do the current
Presidents need him
because of every U.S. President,
his was the hardest hands down.
He, his nation's at war with
itself and being torn apart,
he ended slavery, his son
died in the White House
and he paid the ultimate
price; he was assassinated,
so that's the benchmark.
There's no tougher presidency
than Lincoln and I wonder
if the modern day Presidents who
are struggling with their day
to day decisions that they have
to make -- I remember
seeing George H. W. Bush
in an interview saying the first
time he had to send some troops
into harm's way he
sat there saying,
I thought about what
Lincoln went through
and I went okay, I can do this.
So there's this invoking, you
know, of this sacred name,
Lincoln you know,
in the White House.
>> Noory: And you wonder if
Lincoln is giving then advice.
You just never know.
>> Belanger: If nothing
else his spirit's there.
And however you want to
define the word spirit is fine
and the strength and what he
represents is there, you know,
beyond just the portraits.
This guy is amazing and the
influence that's still felt,
that's really something.
I mean we should
all be so lucky.
>> Noory: Jeffrey thanks
for being on Beyond Belief.
>> Belanger: Thank you George.
>> Noory: Well there
is another side.
You may not be a believer in it
but one day I'm convinced
you probably will be.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching Beyond Belief.
[ Music ]